1. Write a query to create a database named college_db.


Ans: create database college_db;
2. Create a table students with columns:
id INT, name VARCHAR(30), branch VARCHAR(20).
Ans : create table students (id INT, name VARCHAR(30), branch VARCHAR(20));

   3. Add a column email VARCHAR(40) to the students table.
Ans :  alter table students add column email VARCHAR(40);

   4. Add two columns phone BIGINT and city VARCHAR(20) in a single query.
Ans : alter table students add column phone BIGINT , add column city VARCHAR(20));

   5. Change the datatype of name from VARCHAR(30) to VARCHAR(50). 
Ans : alter table students modify column name VARCHAR(50);


   6. Modify the branch column size to VARCHAR(25).
Ans: alter table students modify column branch VARCHAR(25);

   7. Rename the column branch to department.
Ans: alter table students rename column branch to department;




    8. Rename the table students to student_details. 
         Ans: rename table students to student_details;
   9. Remove the column email from student_details.
Ans:  alter table student_details drop column email;
   10. Drop both phone and city columns using separate queries.
          Ans: alter table student_details drop column phone;
                    alter table student_details drop column city;

   11. Write a query to remove all records from student_details but keep the table.
Ans: truncate table student_details;
   12. Write a query to permanently delete the student_details table.
Ans: drop table student_details;

   13. Rename the database college_db to college_database.
Ans:we cannot rename the database only we can create new one.

   14. Delete the database college_database.
Ans: drop database college_database;

   15. Display the structure of the table student_details.
Ans: desc student_details;









   16. Write a query to show all tables in the current database.
Ans: show tables;
   17. Create a table courses, then add a column duration INT.
Ans: create table courses(name varchar(30));
         alter table courses add column duration INT;

   18. Create a table teachers, then rename it to faculty.
Ans: create table teachers(name varchar(50)),
        rename table teachers to faculty;

   19. What happens if you run DROP TABLE students; when the table does not exist?
Ans: the query will not run and show error 

   20. Can TRUNCATE be rolled back? Write the query and explain.
Ans : TRUNCATE cannot be rolled back.
QUERY: truncate table table_name; 
 Explanation: truncate is used to eliminate the records/rows from a given table and once its eliminated it cannot be rolled back